<chapter id="details">
<title
>&appname; details</title>

<sect1 id="field-types">
<title
>Veldtypen</title>

<para
>Elke verzameling kan een ongelimiteerd aantal velden hebben. &appname; ondersteunt elf typen velden, wat mogelijkheden biedt voor een reeks van verschillende gegevens. </para>

<sect2 id="line">
<title
>Eenvoudige tekst</title>

<para
>Het meest eenvoudige veldtype is <emphasis
>Eenvoudige tekst</emphasis
>. Er zijn geen beperkingen op de waarden van de velden en het invoerwidget is de standaard regelbewerking. Dit type is van toepassing op velden waarvan niet verwacht wordt om lange waarden te bevatten, dus zoiets als de auteur of het genre. </para>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="number">
<title
>Cijfers</title>

<para
>Het type <emphasis
>Getal</emphasis
> is identiek aan het type <emphasis
>eenvoudige tekst</emphasis
>, behalve dat het gegevens beperkt is tot iets numerieks. Items zullen numeriek gesorteerd worden in de kolomweergave als <emphasis
>Getal</emphasis
> als veldkolom wordt aangeklikt. De standaard regelbewerking, met kleine pijlknoppen voor het verhogen of verlagen van de waarde, wordt gebruikt voor invoer. Er zal nooit formattering worden gebruikt.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="url">
<title
>&URL;</title>

<para
>The <emphasis
>&URL;</emphasis
> type allows for links to other documents, using the standard &kde; file type associations for opening the linked documents. No validation is done on the actual value of a <emphasis
>&URL;</emphasis
> field, but non-valid links are not opened. The data entry is a line edit with a button for opening the standard File-Open dialog, but any &URL; may be used. Relative &URL;s are interpreted relative to the location of the data file, once it has been saved. </para>

<para
>In the <link linkend="entry-editor"
><interface
>Entry Editor</interface
></link
>, the label becomes the link, while in the <link linkend="entry-view"
><interface
>Entry View</interface
></link
>, an actual hyperlink is used. This field type is convenient for linking to <acronym
>PDF</acronym
> files of bibliographic entries, or to movie reviews, for example. No formatting is ever applied.</para>

<para
>Relative &URL;s may also be used. They are interpreted relative to the location of the &appname; data file. In the <link linkend="entry-editor"
><interface
>Entry Editor</interface
></link
>, the line edit provides auto-completion for local file locations. If you want the &URL; from the &kde; File Selector Dialog Box to be interpreted relative to the document location, then a property for the &URL; field should be set to <emphasis
>relative</emphasis
> : <emphasis
>true</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="para">
<title
>Paragraaf</title>

<para
>For longer text fields, the <emphasis
>Paragraph</emphasis
> type offers a larger text edit area, and is always in its own category. A <emphasis
>Paragraph</emphasis
> field may not have multiple values, nor is it automatically formatted. It cannot be used for grouping. Abstracts, plot summaries, or reviews should be entered using this field type.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="choice">
<title
>Keuze</title>

<para
>When a field should be limited to a few preset values, a <emphasis
>Choice</emphasis
> type is used. The acceptable values are presented in a drop down box for selection. Obviously, multiple values are not applicable. Fields such as bibliography type or personal rating are <emphasis
>Choice</emphasis
>-type fields.</para>

<para
>Puntkomma's moeten worden gebruikt om de toegestane waarden te scheiden.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="bool">
<title
>Keuzevakje</title>

<para
>For fields which take a yes or no value, the <emphasis
>Checkbox</emphasis
> type is available. By default, the field is toggled off. <emphasis
>Checkbox</emphasis
> fields are not formatted and are limited to single values. Internally, the field values are carried as <emphasis
><constant
>true</constant
></emphasis
> or <emphasis
><constant
>false</constant
></emphasis
>. Some examples are gift or loaned fields.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="date">
<title
>Datum</title>

<para
>A <emphasis
>Date</emphasis
> field can include a day, month, and year. The date is shown in the standard format of YYYY-MM-DD, which allows for easy sorting. The standard &kde; Date Selector may be used to choose the date with the mouse, or it may be entered directly. The field is not required to have non-empty values for the year, month, and day; only the year may be entered, for example. Multiple values are not allowed. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="table">
<title
>Tabel</title>

<para
><emphasis
>Table</emphasis
> fields hold a one or more columns of values. In the <link linkend="entry-editor"
><interface
>Entry Editor</interface
></link
>, the field is presented using a spreadsheet-like view, with numbered rows. When the last row is selected, an additional row is then added. Auto-completion is not available. This field is useful for a list of chapters in a book, scenes in a movie, or songs in an album. <emphasis
>Table</emphasis
> fields are always a category by themselves. </para>

<para
>The number of columns, up to a maximum of ten, is defined by adding a property to the field definition with the name <emphasis
>columns</emphasis
>. The columns may be labeled by right-clicking on the header, or by setting a field property named <emphasis
>column1</emphasis
>, etc. </para>

<para
>When using the <interface
>Entry Editor</interface
> for <emphasis
>Table</emphasis
> fields, rows may be rearranged by dragging the mouse while holding the &Ctrl; button. A popup menu is also available by right-clicking on the table, which allows rows to be inserted or removed. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="image">
<title
>Afbeelding</title>

<para
><emphasis
>Afbeelding</emphasis
>svelden bevatten een afbeelding van elk formaat ondersteund door &kde;. Enige typische omvatten <acronym
>PNG</acronym
> of <acronym
>JPEG</acronym
>. De afbeelding kann opgeslagen worden in het gegevensbestand van &appname; zelf of in de gegevensmap van de toepassing. De standaard bestandenkiezer van &kde; wordt gebruikt, u kunt dus een &URL; gebruiken of gewoon een lokaal beschikbaar bestand. Afbeeldingen kunnen ook versleept worden uit een bestandsbeheerder of browser. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="rating">
<title
>Waardering</title>

<para
><emphasis
>Rating</emphasis
> fields show a number of stars to represent a numerical rating for an entry. By default, the rating is a maximum of five. The minimum and maximum may be changed by setting properties in the field definition in the <interface
>Collection Fields Dialog</interface
>, named <emphasis
>minimum</emphasis
> and <emphasis
>maximum</emphasis
>, respectively. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="derived">
<title
>Velden voor afgeleide waarde</title>

<para
>Fields with derived values are a special case. The field type corresponds to the typical type of value contained in the field, but the value of the field is constructed from other fields using a format string in the field description. For example, if the field has a value template of <userinput
>%{title} %{year}</userinput
>, then the value of that field will be the title, followed by the year. This field type is used primarily for the title field in the coin, stamp, trading card, and wine collections. Either the internal field name or the field title may be used in the description for formatting. </para>

<para
>To select only a single value for a field with multiple values, add a position index to the template, such as <userinput
>%{author:1}</userinput
> for the first author. The position may be negative, counting from the end, so <userinput
>%{author:-1}</userinput
> would be the last author. Upper and lower-case values may be used by setting template flags, such as <userinput
>%{author:1/l}</userinput
> for lower-case first author and <userinput
>%{author:1/u}</userinput
> for upper-case. </para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="collection-types">
<title
>Typen verzamelingen</title>

<para
>&appname; supports twelve specific collection types by default: books, bibliographic entries, comic books, videos, music, video games, trading cards, coins, stamps, wines, board games, and file catalogs. In addition, an empty generic collection template is available for any other collectibles. The default collections are only meant to include a general set of fields. You should add, modify, or delete them to fit your needs. The only requirement is that a collection should always have a <emphasis
>Title</emphasis
> field, so that the <link linkend="group-view"
><interface
>Group View</interface
></link
> works correctly. For some collection types, that is just a <link linkend="derived"
>derived value</link
> field combining two or more of the others. </para>

<para
>In general, there's no functional difference between the collection types. You could create a custom collection for your books just as easily as using the default book collection. But &appname; chooses icons based on collection type, and there may be some specialized functionality that is unique to a certain collection, so if you can, you should use the defaults. So, if you want to create a wine collection, but don't like any of the default fields, go ahead and create a default wine collection, then delete all the defaults. That way, &appname; still knows that it's a wine collection. </para>

<para
>By default, all the collection types include an <emphasis
>ID</emphasis
> field, which shows the ID number of the entry. In addition, except for the file catalog, each collection includes fields showing the date that the entry was created in the collection and the last time that it was modified. </para>

<sect2 id="book-collection">
<title
>Verzamelingen van boeken</title>
<para
>Book collections have 26 default fields: <emphasis
>Title</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Subtitle</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Author</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Binding</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Purchase Date</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Purchase Price</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Publisher</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Edition</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Copyright Year</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Publication Year</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>ISBN#</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>LCCN#</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Pages</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Language</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Genre</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Keywords</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Series</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Series Number</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Condition</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Signed</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Read</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Loaned</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Rating</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Front Cover</emphasis
>, and <emphasis
>Comments</emphasis
>. </para>

<para
>The <emphasis
>ISBN#</emphasis
> field is special, since <acronym
>ISBN</acronym
> numbers are automatically formatted and the check-digit is calculated. &appname; recognizes the <acronym
>ISBN</acronym
> field if its internal field name is <emphasis
>isbn</emphasis
>. If you have deleted it, or need to add it to another type of collection, create the field with the title as <emphasis
>ISBN</emphasis
> and apply the change, then you can return and modify the title as you want. &appname; creates the internal name based on the initial title, but never changes it if the title is later updated. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="bibliography">
<title
>Bibliografieën</title>
<para
>Bibliografieën hebben 25 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Itemtype </emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Auteur</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Bibtex-sleutel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Boektitel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Editor</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Organisatie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Uitgever</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>ISBN#</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Adres</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Editie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Pagina's</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Tijdschrift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Maand</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Nummer</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Hoe gepubliceerd</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Hoofdstuk</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Serie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Serienummer</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Volume</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Kruisverwijzing</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Trefwoorden</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Samenvatting</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Notities</emphasis
>. </para>

<para
>Although bibliographic collections are not specifically linked to bibtex, the default set of fields is taken from a typical set of bibtex fields. When exporting to bibtex, a property called <emphasis
>bibtex</emphasis
> is used for each field to define the corresponding bibtex field. If you add an additional field to a bibliography and want to export it to bibtex, be sure to set the <emphasis
>bibtex</emphasis
> property. </para>

<para
>&appname; does have some specialized functions for bibliographies. Bibtex string macros can be added, modified, or deleted from within &appname; and the bibtex export gives you the option of expanding the macros. Bibtex citations can be pushed to an external application such as <application
>LyX</application
> or <application
>Kile</application
> using the so-called <emphasis
><link linkend="hidden-bibtex-options"
>lyxpipe</link
></emphasis
>. </para>

<para
>Book collections can be converted to bibliographies. Default bibtex fields are added, and the bibtex properties are set. This functionality exists primarily to convert old collections, before the bibliography type was separated from the book collection type. </para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="comic-book-collection">
<title
>Verzamelingen van stripboeken</title>
<para
>Comic book collections have 22 default fields: <emphasis
>Title</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Subtitle</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Writer</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Artist</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Series</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Issues</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Publisher</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Edition</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Publication Year</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Pages</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Country</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Language</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Genre</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Keywords</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Condition</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Purchase Date</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Purchase Price</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Signed</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Loaned</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Front Cover</emphasis
>, and <emphasis
>Comments</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="video-collection">
<title
>Verzamelingen van video's</title>
<para
>Videoverzamelingen hebben 30 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Medium</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar productie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Certificering</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Genre</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Regio</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Nationaliteit</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Formaat</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Cast</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Director</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Producer</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Schrijver</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Componist</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Studio</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Taaltracks</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Taal ondertiteling</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Audio-tracks</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Afspeelduur</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Beeldverhouding</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Breed scherm</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Kleurmodus</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Director's Cut</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Samenvatting plot</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Persoonlijke rating</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopdatum</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopprijs</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Geleend</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Cover</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Toelichting</emphasis
>. </para>

<para
>Het veld <emphasis
>Cast</emphasis
> is een <link linkend="table"
>tabel</link
> met twee kolommen en de naam van de acteur is bedoeld voor de eerste kolom, met de rol in de tweede. The <emphasis
>Afspeelduur</emphasis
> is bedoeld te zijn in minuten, maar u kunt dat natuurlijk wijzigen. </para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="music-collection">
<title
>Muziekverzamelingen</title>
<para
>Muziekverzamelingen hebben 15 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Medium</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Artiest</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Label</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Genre</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Tracks</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Waardering</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Koopdatum</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopprijs</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Geleend</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Sleutelwoorden</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Hoes</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Opmerkingen</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="game-collection">
<title
>Verzameling van spellen</title>
<para
>Videospelenverzamelingen hebben 16 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Platform</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Genre</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar uitgave</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Publisher</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Ontwikkelaar</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>ESRB-rating</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Beschrijving</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Persoonlijke rating</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Voltooid</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopdatum</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopprijs</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Geleend</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Cover</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Toelichting</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="card-collection">
<title
>Kaartverzamelingen</title>
<para
>Trading card-verzamelingen hebben 17 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Speler</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Team</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Merk</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Kaartnummer</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Serie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Kaarttype</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopdatum</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopprijs</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Locatie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Sleutelwoorden</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Hoeveelheid</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Plaatje voorkant</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Plaatje achterkant</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Toelichting</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="coin-collection">
<title
>Muntenverzamelingen</title>
<para
>Muntenverzamelingen hebben 16 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Type</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Denominatie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Muntmerk</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Land</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Muntset</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gehalte</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Keuringsdienst</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopdatum</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopprijs</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Locatie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Voorkant</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Achterkant</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Opmerkingen</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="stamp-collection">
<title
>Postzegelverzamelingen</title>
<para
>Postzegelverzamelingen hebben 18 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Beschrijving</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Denominatie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Land</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar van uitgifte</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Kleur</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Scott#</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Waardering</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Vervallen</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Vertanding</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Centerring</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Met gom</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopdatum</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopprijs</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Locatie</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Afbeelding</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Opmerkingen</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="wine-collection">
<title
>Wijnverzamelingen</title>
<para
>Wine collections have 15 default fields. <emphasis
>Title</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Producer</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Appellation</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Varietal</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Type</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Country</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Purchase Date</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Purchase Price</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Location</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Quantity</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Drink By</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Rating</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Label Image</emphasis
>, and <emphasis
>Comments</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="board-game-collection">
<title
>Bordspelenverzameling</title>
<para
>Bordspelenverzamelingen hebben 17 standaard velden: <emphasis
>Titel</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Genre</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Mechanismen</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Jaar uitgave</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Publisher</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Ontwerper</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aantal spelers</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Speeltijd</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Minimum leeftijd</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Beschrijving</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Waardering</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopdatum</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aankoopprijs</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gift</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Geleend</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Hoes</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Toelichting</emphasis
>. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="file-catalog">
<title
>Catalogus-bestand</title>
<para
>Catalogus-bestanden hebben 14 standaard velden. <emphasis
>Naam</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>&URL;</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Beschrijving</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Volume</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Map</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Mimetype</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Grootte</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Rechten</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Eigenaar</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Groep</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Aangemaakt</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Gewijzigd</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>Meta-informatie</emphasis
> en <emphasis
>Pictogram</emphasis
>, </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="custom-collection">
<title
>Custom Collections</title>
<para
>Custom collections have one default field, the <emphasis
>Title</emphasis
>. They should be used when the collectible item is not one of the default types. </para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>
